Now we're going to dig a little deeper into this formatting stuff that we were working with in the last
lesson, specifically the no format class and some of the derivatives of it.
So if you just want to format numbers for money or percentages or things of that sort, by the way?
Well, first off, let's just look at what else you can do kind of out of the box with no real, real
work.
So no doubt format has a few other methods on it.
So you can get the persistence instance with this version that we're using here.
It will just return you a formatter that is appropriate for your locale, meaning where you live, right?
So in North America, particularly in the US, we format money with a dollar sign.
And typically we use commas to group the the numbers every three digits.
And we use a period to separate the decimal place.
Yes.
So the get currency instance and get percent instance will give you a formatter for whatever locale
you're in.
However, if you want to specify a locale, they both of those methods have another version where you
can specify a locale.
We looked at that a little bit ago.
So let's see.
You can get a percentage, you can get a currency, you can get a compact number instance.
Let's see.
What else do you have here?
You can get a generic instance, an integer instance and number instance.
OK, so these are a few things that you can get out of the box.
But in all likelihood, the currency in percent instances are probably the most popular ones that you're
likely to use.
All right.
But you can do more beyond these automatic easy to use.
Guys, you can create your own instances as well, and then you can tell it how you want it to format
numbers so you can have a lot of control over that.
So now let's look at doing that.
Let's just reproduce our own form matters that give us this same type of output.
So to do that, we'll put a new line here, and we're going to use a subclass of the number format called
decimal format because we're, you know, generally working with decimal numbers.
And I will call this death and I'm going to create an instance of it using the new operator now.
OK, so decimal format.
Now this class has a constructor where we can specify a pattern that we want it to use to format our
decimal numbers.
And to do that, we simply put quotes and then we specify the pattern.
Now the pattern has a language not nearly as complicated as regular expressions, but something kind
of along those lines.
OK.
So let's start start with something simple.
If you just want to say, show a number, you can do something like this just a no sign, and that makes
a lot of sense, right?
And then if we want to use this format or we can come down here to line 28 where we're using the money
format or from up here and we can replace it with this new decimal format or that we have just like
this.
OK.
All right.
So let's see what this does.
I'm going to run that.
OK, so that's just showing the whole part of the number and not showing any fractional part that node.
No decimal there.
All right.
OK.
If we want to show the decimal, we can put a period and then a couple of no signs like this and let's
see what this does.
All right, there we go.
So now we're seeing something here a little bit more.
Now what if we want to put the commas in?
That's pretty easy.
So you need to specify where you want the commas to go.
So what we could do is put a comma in here and then another number sign like that.
So let's see what this will do.
OK.
So not quite what we wanted.
So what's happening here is the way this is getting interpreted is that we want to show a comma at every
one character.
So every single character, the reason it interprets it this way is because we're showing no comma,
no.
So it interprets that to mean every one character, which means that every character.
OK.
So if we were to put two no signs to the right of the comma now, it will interpret that to mean you
want a comma.
Every two numbers.
If we were to put three commas here, then it will now think you want a comma every three numbers,
which is the way that we format when we are going to group up numbers in North America.
So let's run this and see, yeah, that's what we want.
Incidentally, let's see what happens if we leave off this leading.
No sign, by the way.
All right.
So it's still figures it out.
So the.
Important part here is how many numbers, signs you have to the right of the comma.
All right now we're missing the dollar sign so we can put that in now.
Typically, you'll see when people are specifying these format strings that they will have the leading
numbers sign here just so that it looks like, you know, kind of like.
Correct, right?
Even though technically we don't necessarily need it.
Well, let's let's see.
Do we need it?
I'm not even sure if we need it.
No, we didn't.
But that looks kind of weird.
And so I think typically just to keep things a little more normal looking, we just put that leading
no sign there.
All right.
And so there's our dollar sign and look at that.
We're back to having a well formatted monetary value for North America, at least now.
If this were all that you were going to do, this would, in my opinion, be inferior to just using
the get currency instance because the get currency instance is way smarter.
There are a few other things that we still haven't even specified, like how to handle if this value
is negative.
And then obviously also this decimal format is quite limited in that it only knows how to format for
North America.
Whereas if we do it this way, right out of the box, you get a formatter for pretty much every place
in the world or virtually every place in the world, and you don't even have to know those rules.
You can just use it and it will do the right thing.
However, let's say that we do want it to display a little differently when the value is negative.
You may be familiar with some, I guess, accounting standards, I suppose, where negative values will
be shown in parentheses.
So to do that, what we can do is put a semicolon here.
And so what this sets us up for is to say everything to the left of the semicolon is how I want you
to display things that are values that are positive.
And then everything to the right is how I want you to display things that are negative.
Now, thankfully for the negative case, you don't have to restate every single thing.
You can just say the parts that you want to be done differently when it is negative.
And in this case, all we want differently is to put it in parentheses.
Now you do have to repeat the dollar sign, though.
So if we do a dollar sign and then parentheses and then just one, no sign and that's all we need,
the rest of the formatting rules will be retained.
So let's see what that looks like.
Oh, well.
Well, first, let's just make sure we didn't break anything.
So let's just run this.
So obviously, our balance is not negative.
So we're we should still see the same thing which we do.
So we didn't break anything now to make this balance negative.
The easiest thing we can do is just call one of the many additional methods on the big decimal class.
There's a method on here called Negate.
And it just flips the sign of the No.
All right, so now if we run this, OK, cool.
So now it's a negative number and that is shown here by putting the number in parentheses.
OK, now we could have, you know, made this do whatever we wanted.
But this is pretty standard stuff and it retained the formatting and the fact that we want to show two
decimal places, by the way.
So let's say we wanted to show four decimal places.
For some reason we can do that to split point.
And then for no sign.
So let's run that, OK?
So there's that or one decimal place.
All right, now with the one decimal place, it's not showing the decimal point at all because with
rounding rules and everything that turned out to be zero, if we want to force it to always show two
decimal places, even if the value is zero.
Actually, this is a good this is a good scenario here.
What we can do is instead of using the number sign here after the period, we can use two zeros here.
So this means to pad that area that many digits.
So give us padding of two decimal places, no matter whether there's a value there or not.
So now if we run this, there you go and we get the to right the point zero two there.
So now there will always be these two decimal places, whether we need them or not.
Incidentally, we could do this to the left as well.
We could pad to the left.
Now it'll look a little weird with money.
I'm going to turn off the negation here.
Otherwise it'll start to look a little busy.
So let's see here.
We can pad this with zeros, and the way I'll do this is let's see one two three four five six seven
and we can keep the eight nine 10 and we can keep the commas in there as well.
So let's see what this does.
It's going to look a little weird, but.
All right, so there we go, so now we've got some padding in here, so what we have said is we want
a field that is one two three four five six seven eight nine 10 digits padded to the left of the decimal
one two three four five six seven eight nine 10 right.
And every three digits will be grouped separated by a comma.
So there you can see that we were able to put some padding in there, right?
OK, and then let's put this back to something a little more normal looking, though.
All right.
And then let's also say that we want to reproduce this percentage formatting here.
So let's make another formatter.
And I'm going to call this four percent formatter.
And our pattern here will be no sign and a percent sign, because that is the pattern we'd want a digit
and then and that while some digits and then percent sign.
All right now to use this or to test this out, rather, we'll just make another system that out.
And let's just see, so we'll have to use the the new percent format or PDF format format, and then
we just give it a value.
So let's just give it a double of point zero eight.
All right.
So we want it to form at that point zero eight.
So let's see what this does.
There you go.
Look at that.
It turned it into an eight percent automatically for us, so the formatting rules know that if you're
using this percent sign here that you want to take that value and multiply it times 100, which is to
say to move the decimal point over to the right by two places, right?
And so then you end up with an eight.
And now that's interpreted as anything that's printed as an eight percent.
So pretty straightforward.
And then, you know, we can do all the other things that we were doing earlier.
So if you happened to have an excessively large number there and you wanted it to be formatted, you
could you could do that still.
Now, in this case, that's not going to do anything because the number itself isn't big enough.
But I suppose if we had a number that was big enough, let's see what that does.
There you go.
Two hundred seventy three thousand seven hundred eight percent.
So just a few simple things that we can do.
So you can read more about all of the additional little symbols and things.
But my point here was mostly to introduce you to the fact that if you didn't like the formatting that
you were getting out of the box, you can customize that formatting yourself and pretty, pretty nice
little format.
So let's see.
Now in the next lesson, we're going to look at yet another way to format as well.
So stay tuned and I'll see you in the next one.